Heroes of Pymoli Trend Analysis

Within the data that was pulled there were many analytical trends that could be found, but to use the data in the most effective and beneficial way it is usefly to approach the analysis from a particular perspective. For the purpose of this exercise I have chosen to approach this from the perspective of marketing analysis.

The first clear trend that is very clear is that the large majority of users are male. In the age categories, the largest group is held within the ages of 20-24 years old. It is safe to say from these two facts that the largest user group is 20-24 year old males if both age and gender are taken into account. Further analysis could be done to confirm this assumption. This information can be helpful to predicting the most likely people to become users of the game. Predicting the likely age and gender groups that will use a particular game guides the team towards marketing channels that will reach these users even more.

Another interesting trend to analyze could be if the largest collection of female users are in a different age group than the age group with the largest concentration of males. 

One might assume that the purchase price would be highest within the age group with the most people, also assuming that this is the age group that enjoys the game the most. Once the purchasing trends are analyzed by age group there are some somewhat unexpected results. The average purchase price is highest in the age groups under 10 years old and between ages 35-39. For marketing purposes this information could be useful because even though the age group of 20-24 is the most likely target market to convert to a user, the age groups under 10 and 35-59 years old could be more valuable target markets to approach because of the return on investment being higher than other age groups. Inversely, marketing to people over the age of 40 may not be as worth it because they are the age group that spends the least per user.

Ignoring the users themselves and analyzing the items within the game that are available for purchase can be helpful for developers to know what types of items should be developed in future games to promote the most profitable outcomes. 

The most frequently purchased items are, 4 out of 5 times, also the items on top of the most profitable. It is also important to note that if further analysis is done on these items, they are some of the most expensive items offered, approaching $5 each. There are also items available close to $1 each, however despite the lower cost, these items are not purchased more frequently. This tells us that users that purchase are not as worried about the price of each item, but are possibly focused on what benefit they get from the item. For future game development this can help the developers know that making items that are more appealing to users and more expensive will most likely result in a larger profit margin for the game.

In conclusion, if the data is analyzed from a marketing perspective, there are clear trends that can be utilized. With respect to marketing to potential customers, gender and age analysis can be used to predict what target markets are most ideal for outbound marketing. Marketing towards the age and gender groups that are considered 'top spenders' will almost definitely return the highest profit. Internally, marketing to current users the items that are most useful to them that also cost a bit more than other items can also return larger profit margins.